README.md, before:

# Mini-MIPS Assembler
## Overview
An assembler for a subset of the MIPS instruction set, written in C. I created this shortly after learning C and MIPS to gain experience with C projects (and projects in general) and improve my skills in C.
The program converts a file written in MIPS assembly into an object file, which includes a header, the text segment containing the machine code representation of every instruction, followed by the data segment.
I am currently working on an emulator to run the binary generated by the assembler.


The object file has the following format:
```
* File Header
  - Text entry (0x00400000)
  - Data entry (0x10010000)
  - Text segment size (in bytes)
  - Data segment size (in bytes)
* Text segment
* Data segment
```

The particular details of the MIPS instruction set were sourced from _MIPS Assembly Language Programmer's Guide_ (Silicon Graphics, 1992). 

## Usage
To assemble a file, you can use `build`, which expects one or two arguments. The first argument is always the source assembly file. If a second argument for the output path is not given, the assembler writes the binary to `a.bin` in the same directory.
You can also pass `-h` as an argument, which outputs this file.
Alternatively, you can run the executable directly, which always requires two arguments: the source and the destination.


The following commands are equivalent:
```bash
$ ./build test.asm
$ ./build test.asm a.bin
$ ./mips_assembler test.asm a.bin
```
An example file and its object file are given in the `examples/` directory.

## Support
The assembler does not support the entire MIPS instruction set. Namely, it does not support:
- all floating point instructions
- lbu, lhu
- lb, ll
- mcf0
- sc
- the following directives: double, extern, float, globl, kdata, ktext

It does support the following pseudoinstructions:
- bgt, blt, bge, ble
- li
- la
- move
  
---
Every line of code in this repository was written by a human.

Commit message:

object file now contains relocation table and symbol table

README.md, after:

# Mini-MIPS Assembler
## Overview
An assembler for a subset of the MIPS instruction set, written in C. I created this shortly after learning C and MIPS to gain experience with C projects (and projects in general) and improve my skills in C.
The program converts a file written in MIPS assembly into an object file, which includes a header, the text segment containing the machine code representation of every instruction, followed by the data segment.
I am currently working on an emulator to run the binary generated by the assembler.


The object file has the following format:
```
* File Header
  - Text segment size (in bytes)
  - Data segment size (in bytes)
* Text segment
* Data segment
* Relocation table
  - Number of entries (4 bytes)
  - ...
* Symbol table
  - Number of entries (4 bytes)
  - ...
```

The particular details of the MIPS instruction set were sourced from _MIPS Assembly Language Programmer's Guide_ (Silicon Graphics, 1992). 

## Usage
To assemble a file, you can use `build`, which expects one or two arguments. The first argument is always the source assembly file. If a second argument for the output path is not given, the assembler writes the binary to `a.bin` in the same directory.
You can also pass `-h` as an argument, which outputs this file.
Alternatively, you can run the executable directly, which always requires two arguments: the source and the destination.


The following commands are equivalent:
```bash
$ ./build test.asm
$ ./build test.asm a.bin
$ ./mips_assembler test.asm a.bin
```
An example file and its object file are given in the `examples/` directory.

## Support
The assembler does not support the entire MIPS instruction set. Namely, it does not support:
- all floating point instructions
- lbu, lhu
- lb, ll
- mcf0
- sc
- the following directives: double, extern, float, globl, kdata, ktext

It does support the following pseudoinstructions:
- bgt, blt, bge, ble
- li
- la
- move
  
---
Every line of code in this repository was written by a human.
